Doc 1374/be proof of registration (#454)
swan-io/docs: docs/preview/belgian-ibans/partnership_document-center_company-registration_belgium.mdx

---
title: Proof of Registration
---
<!-- UPDATE when moving to prod: -->
<!-- title: 🇧🇪 Belgium -->

# Proof of registration for Belgian companies

import DocumentsIntro from '/docs/partnership/document-center/partials/_intro-registration.mdx';

<DocumentsIntro country="🇧🇪 Belgium" />

## Companies {#companies}

### Legal forms {#company-types}

| Legal form (Dutch/French) | Description |
|---|---|
| Besloten Vennootschap (BV) / Société à Responsabilité Limitée (SRL) | Private Limited Liability Company |
| Naamloze Vennootschap (NV) / Société Anonyme (SA) | Public Limited Company |
| Vennootschap onder Firma (VOF) / Société en Nom Collectif (SNC) | General Partnership |
| Commanditaire Vennootschap (CommV) / Société en Commandite Simple (SCS) | Limited Partnership |
| Coöperatieve Vennootschap (CV) / Société Coopérative (SC) | Cooperative Company |
| Maatschap / Société Simple | Private Partnership without legal personality |

### Accepted documents {#company-documents}

| Document type (Dutch/French) | Description | Details |
|---|---|---|

> | Uittreksel Handelsregister / Extrait BCE* | Company Registration Extract from CBE* | <ul><li>Must be official and dated.</li><li>Retrieved by Swan from the Crossroads Bank for Enterprises (CBE).</li><li>Must be dated within the last 3 months.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Uittreksel Handelsregister / Extrait Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises (BCE)* | Company Registration Extract from Crossroads Bank for Enterprises (CBE)* | <ul><li>Must be official and dated.</li><li>Retrieved by Swan from the CBE.</li><li>Must be dated within the last 3 months.</li></ul> |
```

| Akte van Oprichting / Statuts* | Articles of Association* | <ul><li>Must be most recently published version.</li><li>Retrieved via CBE → Publications in National Gazette OR Moniteur Belge direct search.</li><li>Dated and signed.</li></ul> |

> | Uittreksel UBO-register / Extrait registre UBO | Extract of UBO Register | <ul><li>Via UBO Register (requires NBB authorization) OR company provision.</li><li>Mandatory under Belgian law.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: NBB: National Bank of Belgium? 

Suggest explaining the acronym when it first appears.

> | Uittreksel UBO-register / Extrait registre UBO | Extract of UBO Register | <ul><li>Via UBO Register (requires NBB authorization) OR company provision.</li><li>Mandatory under Belgian law.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: Maybe something like this:

- Provided by the company, or
- Accessed through UBO Register
  - Requires National Bank of Belgium (NBB) authorization
- Mandatory under Belgian law

> | Uittreksel UBO-register / Extrait registre UBO | Extract of UBO Register | <ul><li>Via UBO Register (requires NBB authorization) OR company provision.</li><li>Mandatory under Belgian law.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Uittreksel UBO-register / Extrait registre UBO | UBO register extract | <ul><li>Via UBO Register (requires NBB authorization) OR company provision.</li><li>Mandatory under Belgian law.</li></ul> |
```

> | Beëdigde verklaring / Déclaration sur l'honneur | Sworn statement | <ul><li>Company declaration.</li><li>If UBO register extract unavailable.</li><li>Must be signed and dated within the last 3 months.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Beëdigde verklaring / Déclaration sur l'honneur | Sworn statement | <ul><li>Company declaration.</li><li>If UBO register extract is unavailable.</li><li>Must be signed and dated within the last 3 months.</li></ul> |
```

> | Identiteitsdocument / Pièce d'identité | Identity documents of directors | <ul><li>ID document/Passport of directors.</li><li>All directors who can represent company.</li><li>Must be submitted in color, both sides (if applicable).</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Identiteitsdocument / Pièce d'identité | Identity documents of directors | <ul><li>Identity document or passport of directors.</li><li>All directors who can represent company.</li><li>Must be submitted in color, both sides (if applicable).</li></ul> |
```

| Bewijs van adres / Justificatif de domicile | Proof of address of UBOs | <ul><li>Must be dated within the last 3 months.</li></ul> |
| Volmacht / Procuration | Power of Attorney (if applicable) | <ul><li>From authorized directors/Board of Directors.</li><li>Must grant power to open AND manage accounts.</li><li>Must be dated (within the last year) and signed.</li><li>Identity document required if the legal representative is not the account holder.</li></ul> |
| Financiële overzichten / Comptes annuels | Annual accounts or tax returns | <ul><li>Available via NBB Central Balance Sheet Office.</li><li>Must be the most recent.</li><li>For enhanced due diligence.</li></ul> |
| Belastingaangifte / Déclaration fiscale | Company's tax return | <ul><li>To be provided by company.</li><li>Additional financial verification.</li></ul> |
| Organigram / Organigramme | Company structure chart | <ul><li>To be provided by company.</li><li>Document must be authentic and the latest version.</li><li>For complex ownership structures.</li></ul> |

> ## Self-employed individuals and freelancers {#self-employed}

Reviewer: Since we don't mention freelancers.

### Legal forms {#self-employed-types}

| Legal form (Dutch/French) | Description |
|---|---|
| Eenmanszaak / Entreprise individuelle | Self-employed |

### Accepted documents {#self-employed-documents}

| Document type (Dutch/French) | Description | Details |
|---|---|---|

> | Uittreksel Handelsregister / Extrait BCE* | CBE Registration Proof* | <ul><li>Must be official and dated.</li><li>Retrieved by Swan from the Crossroads Bank for Enterprises (CBE).</li><li>Must show: name, address, registration number, activity description.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Uittreksel Handelsregister / Extrait BCE* | Proof of Registration* | <ul><li>Must be official and dated.</li><li>Retrieved by Swan from the Crossroads Bank for Enterprises (CBE).</li><li>Must show: name, address, registration number, activity description.</li></ul> |
```

| Identiteitsdocument / Pièce d'identité* | Identity document of individual* | <ul><li>Standard ID verification.</li><li>Individual represents themselves - no separate legal entity.</li><li>Must be submitted in color, both sides (if applicable).</li></ul> |

> | Eerste overschrijving / Premier transfert* | First transfer* | <ul><li>For self-employed (entrepreneur individuel) individuals only</li><li>Must make a first transfer into their payment account from another bank account registered in their name</li><li>Bank account must be within the European Economic Area (EEA)</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Eerste overschrijving / Premier transfert* | First transfer* | <ul><li>For self-employed (entrepreneur individuel) individuals only.</li><li>Must make a first transfer into their payment account from another bank account registered in their name.</li><li>Bank account must be within the European Economic Area (EEA).</li></ul> |
```

## Associations {#associations}

### Legal forms {#association-types}

| Legal form (Dutch/French) | Description |
|---|---|
| Vereniging zonder winstoogmerk (VZW) / Association sans but lucratif (ASBL) | Non-Profit Organization |
| Internationale Vereniging zonder winstoogmerk (IVZW) / Association Internationale sans but lucratif (AISBL) | International Non-Profit Organization |
| Stichting / Fondation | Foundation |

### Accepted documents {#association-documents}

| Document type (Dutch/French) | Description | Details |
|---|---|---|
| Uittreksel Handelsregister / Extrait BCE* | Proof of Registration* | <ul><li>Must be official and dated.</li><li>Retrieved by Swan from the Crossroads Bank for Enterprises (CBE).</li></ul> |
| Akte van Oprichting / Statuts* | Articles of Association* | <ul><li>Dated and signed.</li><li>Must include company name, objectives, and management structure.</li></ul> |

> | KVK uittreksel UBO-register / Extrait registre UBO | Ultimate Beneficial Owner (UBO) certificate | <ul><li>Official document signed and stamped.</li><li>Requested if not clearly shown on proof of registration.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: I'd move this to after "Notulen vergadering / Procès verbal*" because it's not mandatory. It's better to list all mandatory docs first.

## Homeowner associations {#homeowners-associations}

### Legal forms {#homeowner-association-types}

| Legal form (Dutch/French) | Description |
|---|---|
| Vereniging van Mede-eigenaars / Association de copropriétaires (ACP) | Homeowners association |

### Accepted documents {#homeowner-association-documents}

| Document type (Dutch/French) | Description | Details |
|---|---|---|
| Uittreksel Handelsregister / Extrait BCE* | CBE Registration Proof* | <ul><li>Via CBE Public Search using address or registration number - save as PDF.</li><li>⚠️ **Note:** Some HOAs not yet registered in CBE.</li></ul> |
| Acte de base et règlement de copropriété* | Articles of Association* | <ul><li>To be provided by HOA.</li><li>Fundamental governing documents.</li></ul> |
| Notulen vergadering / Procès verbal* | Latest meeting minutes* | <ul><li>To be provided by HOA.</li><li>Shows current decisions and authority.</li><li>Must be the most recent.</li></ul> |

> | Identiteitsdocument / Pièce d'identité* | Identity document of Syndic* | <ul><li>Standard ID verification.</li><li>Syndic is sole legal representative.</li><li>Must be a valid identity document.</li><li>Must be submitted in color, both sides (if applicable).</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Identiteitsdocument / Pièce d'identité* | Identity document of Syndic* | <ul><li>All valid identity documents are accepted.</li><li>Syndic is sole legal representative.</li><li>Must be a valid identity document.</li><li>Must be submitted in color, both sides (if applicable).</li></ul> |
```

| Volmacht / Procuration | Power of attorney from Syndic | <ul><li>From Syndic only.</li><li>⚠️ Syndic cannot delegate without general assembly agreement.</li><li>Proof of general assembly authorization for delegation required.</li><li>Must be dated (within the last year) and signed.</li></ul> |

## Cooperatives {#cooperatives}

### Legal forms {#cooperative-types}

| Legal form (Dutch/French) | Description |
|---|---|
| Coöperatieve Vennootschap (CV) / Société Coopérative (SC) | Cooperative |

### Accepted documents {#cooperative-documents}

| Document type (Dutch/French) | Description | Details |
|---|---|---|
| Uittreksel Handelsregister / Extrait BCE* | Proof of Registration* | <ul><li>Must be official and dated.</li><li>Retrieved by Swan from the Crossroads Bank for Enterprises (CBE).</li></ul> |
| Lidmaatschapsovereenkomst* | Membership agreement* | <ul><li>Must include member names, terms, and conditions of membership.</li></ul> |
| Akte van Oprichting* | Articles of Association* | <ul><li>Dated and signed.</li><li>Must include company objectives and management structure.</li></ul> |

> | Uittreksel UBO-register / Extrait registre UBO | Ultimate Beneficial Owner (UBO) certificate | <ul><li>Official document signed and stamped.</li><li>Requested if not clearly shown on proof of registration.</li><li>If not available, a membership certificate, share certificate, or UBO confirmation letter may be accepted.</li><li>Screenshots of the UBO declaration are not accepted.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: If this isn't mandatory, add it after Notariële oprichtingsakte / Acte notarié de constitution*.

It's better to list all mandatory docs first.
